This semester has been completely challenging across all components of coursework. This being said, it has been a pleasure to learn the precepts of a fundamental language. In our intro course, we have discussed the ways that Latin can be used to understand grammatical and syntactical constructions of various different languages spoken today. We have also learned how Latin has been used over the years as an exclusionary tool. This aspect of the history of the language surprised me, as Latin had always been presented to me as difficult to understand and learn; I now know that this conception has historically been presented to marginalized groups to prevent them from learning the language. I feel the best way to combat this historical exclusion is to attempt to spread the language to those very same groups that have been excluded over time. I feel that the CBL program we have begun to construct this first semester is a great opportunity to start that process and expose young people to the language early in their lives. I also feel this semester has helped me understand similar plights of the English language to marginalized groups in history. For example, we discussed in our practicum section the idea of gender and how much it is currently changing. At the moment, the English language is severely lacking in the amount of ways that we can express and denote our own gender or the gender of others (as there seems to be only two or three ways). The promising aspect of this is that there has already been some creation of new pronouns for those who are non-binary. However, since Latin is quite unable to evolve, it seems as though those groups have a future of feeling left out of the Latin language. This being said, there seems to be a history or genderless pronouns throughout Latin, which could offer these communities a new field of exploration and a model for what today’s languages should look like. All circumstances considered, I feel this has been a successful semester and I look forward to continuing my study of Latin next semester.
